As always, you can have a look at the official docs to learn more about the ion-grid and actually there,
you are linked to a complete article about the grid layout where you can learn all the details about
it but there is no need to do that right now,
I'll dive deeply into the grid in a separate section later in the course because it's such a complex,
not difficult but feature-rich component and component that can be very useful when you're planning
to build an app that should run on both mobile devices and on desktop machines as well. We can use the
grid here to shrink the size of this card on bigger screen sizes. For that
let's go back to the source code and in ion-content, around the content where I want to control the
size, you can add the ion-grid component.
However you don't just stick your content that should resize in there because how would Ionic know
how to resize it.
Instead a grid consists of rows, so-called ion-row elements here and each row has one or multiple ion
columns, so rows and columns make up a grid
and now for a column, you can define the size of this column which of course helps you define the size
of the content because it's the ion-column that holds the content you want to render.
So this ion-card, I'll cut it and move it into this ion-column here and now on this ion-column, we
can use default properties and attributes we can set on this element which you'll find in the official
docs,
for example we can set a size attribute,
we can set this to let's say 6.
Now by default, a column is able to have a size of 1 - 12,
you could overwrite this but the default is 1 - 12 which means it either takes one-twelfth of the entire
width or the total width and six therefore takes half the available width.
If I now save this and I go back to my app and reload, we see that shrank, it's now smaller, it's only
half as wide as the screen but of course on a smaller device, this looks super ugly now,
so how can we get the best of both worlds? Have a full width look on the smaller device and take half
the width on a bigger screen?
Well for that, we can actually use specialized forms of these attributes. Instead of setting size equals
six,
we can set size-md equal to six. Now supported is xs, that stands for extra small, sm for small,
md for medium and lg for large and this allows you to set the size for different screen sizes.
Now the breakpoints for the sizes can be found in the official docs and you can also overwrite them
and md should be looking quite good here.
So if we now save this and I reload this on the mobile view, you see we have the full width design back,
on bigger screens though, it only takes half the width.
Now of course, it would be nice to have this centered and turns out you can do it as pretty easy as well.
You can add an offset property and set this to three because we have twelve columns available,
this has a width of 6,
so we want to have three columns on the left and three columns on the right
and this offsets it by three columns to the left
and of course I don't want to offset it on all screen sizes but only on medium screen sizes and higher,
that's important when you add size medium or offset medium or any other breakpoint like size-sm, offset-sm,
then this counts for this screen size,
so for medium sized screens and bigger screens, so it's always like a minimum condition you could say.
So now with this configuration, size-md equals six and offset-md equal three, if we reload this, it's now
nicely centred on bigger screens and on smaller screens, we still have the full available width and that
is exactly the look I want here.
Now again, the grid has a lot of configuration possibilities and therefore, we'll have an entire module
where we spend a lot of time on the grid and I will not dive super deep into it right now.
I just want you at this point to understand that we have different categories of components and that
you will have different tools for whether you want to output some content, listen to input or you
want to change the structure or size or order of your elements on the screen and the grid as well as
a couple of other layout components can be really helpful with that.